Wow, it's so much brighter out here. It is. It's, you know, the future is bright. There's lens flare in the future. Yeah. So, uh, welcome everybody to the Oscars of optimism that, of course, we're opening up the summit with the king of autonomous weapon systems. [laughter] All right. So, uh, I want to start with the fact that we're awarding three X prizes this week. Palmer, congratulations for winning our, uh, Wildfire X-P prize. Thank you so much. Yeah, [applause] this one's been a long time. And in it has Let's get Let's get the uh the the slide up here. So, Palmer won $2.2 million for Ander as if you need it. um a million of a million of that from Lockheed, which was kind of interesting. We do a lot of work with Lockheed. We also compete with them, but we in the in the defense space, it's uh you know, we we compete with their fighter jet division and we partner with them on some of their payloads. And so we do a lot of stuff together. But me and you have both been trying to get this autonomous firefighting stuff going for a long time. For a while. I mean, you got this prize announced back in 2019. It's been a long time. And one of our first two products was an autonomous firefighting tank that we started building in 2017, finished in 2019. It's insane that we let fires become conflrations before you put them out. And well, and and it's kind of insane that uh people are saying, "Oh, that you know, the technologies finally made this possible." And I I'm not going to correct him too often in public, but it's I mean, this has been possible for over a decade. It's just that uh let's watch it's become politically politically impossible to ignore the problem. out. I'm going to watch a one minute video clip of what your team achieved and if you'd walk us through it here. Sure. So you this was uh an example of what we were doing at the test site where we were uh detecting fires, classifying fires. What you don't really see in here is that you also [music] need to reject false fires. That was part of the test as well. So you have to know, you know, who's a guy smoking a cigarette, who's a guy, what's what's a campfire, what's a road flare, and then what's something that shows the characteristics of real fire? That's what you need to flag to people. That's what you need to flag to emergency services. Uh and then you need to matchmake the type of fire to the right asset that's in the area. And so you want to basically use the most cost effective thing that can respond and get there in time. And if something's growing faster, you might need something different. If it's in woods versus on a brush hill, you might need something different. And so, you know, it's it's it's about detection, classification, rejection, matchmaking, and then going and and hitting the target. And the last thing I'll say is that with most of what we do, uh, our work with the military, you go through many of these same steps, but if you find a target, let's say it takes you, you know, an hour to an hour to to get to somebody versus 10 minutes, it usually doesn't make as much of a difference. When you're talking about fire though, the difference between 10 minutes and an hour response, totally different tools you're going to need to respond with. You know, a bomb is is is a is a bomb whether or not it takes a day or an hour or a minute to get there. Uh but when when a fire is is is metastasizing, you need to pick the right thing that can put it out before it gets too large. Amazing. you know, uh, we're going to be announcing something in a month's time, uh, that you're funding a new X-P prize and, uh, it's going to be secret until then, but we're going to tease it now. Uh, another $10 million prize. Would you share share with us what we're going to do? Sure. you know, uh, the, you know, we we should we should keep the details secret because there's there's some there's some good twists, but suffice to say that, uh, I'm not I'm not interested in joining the race to push AI forward with my money. I think that the the the the artificial intelligence side of models is is is pretty well covered by plenty of people. I think we've not been doing enough understanding biological intelligence, particularly beyond people. And so this is going to be a prize around understanding how animals think and making so that we can communicate with them 10 times better than the current state of the art for the current smartest species. And not just trained animals but wild animals in their own in their own language. Amazing. [applause and cheering] And I think that there's actually a lot that we're going to be able to learn. I mean if you look at uh large language models, they're kind of this, you know, they're they're based on uh humanity's way of thinking and communicating distilled. And I think that there's plenty to learn from all of the other species that are on this planet. And I wouldn't be surprised if it has applications for for AI, particularly AI, where you need to be uh more efficient, you know, more power efficient, more time efficient, uh you know, a a different point of view, two heads are better than one, whichever uh whatever metaphor you want to use. Love it. Love it. All right. I'm going to kick off the first official question here. Poom, you're in the AI industry, the defense industry. What's your P doom? I'm just not worried uh about AI dooming the I guess I'm not worried about AI doing the killing. I'm very very worried about evil people using moderately competent AI to do evil things. Exactly. And I am kind of frustrated by a lot of people who are new to the dooming hobby. Um, and and it's it's it's sort it's sort of like how we had to deal with uh you the war in Ukraine happens and all of a sudden all these people who have had the dumbest opinions you've ever heard about the military for their whole life. Uh, and people who believed we lived at the end of history, that we had moved past conflict, that we lived in a world where you could just write a nasty letter in the UN, forgetting that that only works if it's backed up by credible threat of violence. And and all of a sudden they change their minds. You're seeing this with AI. People who have not thought about this problem for more than a couple years or maybe even just a couple months uh are are saying, "Oh my god, this is the biggest threat to humanity." And these are people who have spent almost no time actually analyzing what the largest threats to humanity are. They haven't spoken to any of the experts in this area. They certainly weren't buying freeze-dried food and building prepper bunkers, you know, like like like like me and many of my my my buddies uh who who have indulged fantasies about what doom could look like and also thought realistically about it. And so uh yeah, the AI doom is way down the list for me. I'm I'm I'm a big optimist. I think it's going to massively reduce the cost of resource extraction, processing, transformation. You're going to see every part of society become subject to the same economies of scale and efficiency that automated industries that automated without AI have seen. So think like agriculture or uh or textiles. You can buy 2 weeks of calories for less than one hour of federal minimum wage labor. That's crazy. Let's give it up for for Palmer here. You're going to see that for everything, Dave. [applause] So, I I got a really um pressing question on my mind. I'm kind of a feeds and feeds and chips and AI foundation models guy. And so, uh when you're putting systems in the field, weapons in the field, uh you can you can put the intelligence inside it, and this has always been a big problem for the Air Force, like if we're going to start flying drones instead of pilots, who's going to unleash the weapons, and how's that decision going to get made? And the the downside of transmitting it back to headquarters is you have latency. Uh the upside is you have a lot more compute. uh what you can put locally in a device in a robot in the field in a plane is limited but it's really really fast. So, what's your philosophy on like, you know, I think a lot of people would say, well, are we going to have self-contained decision-making weapons wandering around enemy territories or are we going to like are we going to have, you know, control at the headquarters? How does it work? More or less. The the real concern isn't so much the latency or or or the speed of computation. The problem is that if you rely on uh you know central a central location to do your compute, you now need to have command and control that has uh good high bandwidth communication back and forth between you and potentially thousands or tens of thousands of active assets. And if your enemy jams your communications or intercepts your communications or hacks your communications, you're done. uh or worse they just skip targeting all the stuff in the field and they go for the place where it's all being controlled. You know, we saw we saw this I there was a there was a there there was there was this documentary that George Lucas was working on and and the Trade Federation they had they had their central AI command and control blown up and that was how the battle of Ne of Naboo actually resolved was all all the battle droids lost. Oh yeah. They all fell over. That's right. and they all fell over. And so I think that that's that that's the practical reality that's driving the need to have autonomy living not back home but forward. There's other areas like uh you go underwater, you can't talk to things and sometimes you could talk to things but you don't want to. Having radio emissions actually exposes you necessarily and so you for better or for worse you're going to need this. I actually don't think it's as much of a shift as people think. Um, I there's a lot of people who look at they say, "Oh my god, Pandora's box is being opened. You're going to have weapons that are making their own kill decisions, and they don't recognize the reality, which is that that's been the case for decades. Uh, you look at the you look at the the you look at the Aegis system on destroyers. It has a fully autonomous mode. You can flip a button and it will shoot down anything that comes within whatever range you programmed it with uh without any human confirmation. Uh you look at SeaWiz and CRAMM for shooting down incoming missiles, incoming mortar, incoming artillery fire, incoming missiles or incoming speedboats. Uh same thing, you can put them in fully autonomous modes. And I mean it going back to in into Vietnam, we had missiles that you could launch from an aircraft. They flew over the horizon, tried to identify the right radio emitters that they believed corresponded with a surfaceto-air missile site, and then struck them without any, you know, the person had to decide, I'm going to send it in this area. they're going to look for this signal and I know that there's this probability they're going to get it right. That decision is going to remain with people. But uh autonomous weapons are uh widely widely there's a whole another talk we're not going to have today. But I I will I I do have a rant about this where actually autonomous weapons have existed for thousands of years. If you look at and they're defined as kind of weapons that can execute the intent of uh what you program to do independent from the operator or the engineer. You look at, for example, pitfall traps that allow people to walk over them, but then capture the commander on his horse when he walks by and it's heavier. You look at uh certain poison traps that would uh that would uh kill people who had who had certain characteristics, not kill people who had other characteristics or not kill animals. Uh you look at many types of landmines and sea mines and even even torpedoes. And so it depends on on your exact definition, but even going into myth where people are creating golems that can, you know, go out and fight on their fight on their behalf or or defend you defend their city. I I guess my argument is we've had autonomous weapons for a very very long time. Uh it's just a new set of technology that's that's making them better. So technical question on that. The foundation models that go into those those remote systems right now. Yeah. Well, so the the right right now the open source models are all Chinese. So I'm pretty sure you're not going to be putting Chinese models into remote weapons. Are you going to build and foundation models or how are you going to get AI in those devices? I mean, we've been doing it since 2017. So we're way ahead of everybody. We're we're we're a decade beyond that question. Um I think that we also don't the foundation models that people are building are not the types of models you want to be doing this. They're non they're largely non-deterministic. they're non auditable. It's it's a very different category. The thing that we are building unfortunately has very few consumer applications and vice versa. There of course are LLM use cases for defense that make a lot of sense, but it's not guiding my missile or or classifying radar, you know, radar radar radar feeds. I mean, and we we're also we can't build models that ingest text and then spit out text. I need to process raw data radar data feeds. I need to process sonar data from passive listening stations on submarines. That's it's it's pretty highly specialized. And I I will take some credit here. Uh all these people who are talking about how AI is going to change everything, they are mostly uh recent converts. And Industries, you might notice the acronym is AI. Um so and that that was not that was not a mistake. Okay, Alex, jump in. Yeah, I think maybe dovetailing on our discussion of driving bench, we're now in an era when it's possible to take frontier models, drop them into a robotic embodiment and get pretty stunning results. So, I'd love to ask you a question maybe about the scaling hypothesis as it applies to autonomous weapon systems or autonomous systems in general. If you have to extrapolate out, is there a Moors law? Is there an experience curve for what a as obviously the capabilities of underlying frontier models whether they're from Frontier Labs proper or from AI as as those progress do we see any equivalent of a Moors law for the autonomous systems themselves and and maybe the the second half of the question would be do you think ultimately we achieve some sort of convergence you'll it makes a variety of embodiment in a variety of different form factors Do you see ultimately some general purpose category killer robot that is equivalently the generalist robotic embodiment just like we now have generalist models that are capable of doing substantially any task? No, I don't think so on the defense side. I think that for manufacturing and for hospitality and medicine, you might see this because you get economies of scale that uh that that are really that are really material for those types of businesses. And you know, a humanoid robot may not be the optimal form for a burger griller, and it may not be the optimal form for a firefighter. It may not be the optimal form for a for a nurse [laughter] or an assembly technician. Selma is smiling. But even if it's not optimal, the fact that it is shared with humanity in its form makes it a really, really good form factor. And now I can make one robot that does all of these things. And uh I I would probably rather have a let's say robot that's 5% slower or or uh you know less reliable than the optimal burger flipping robot if I can share commonality with that with that nurse. In defense, that's not really the case. Uh- because you are in this constant race to not just barely beat your adversary, but to massively overpower them, to try and make it where you the goal is not to just barely win a conflict on the margins. It is to fight unfair, to have overwhelming threat of violence underpinning whatever diplomatic overtures or negotiations you have. And and and everyone's always pushing the limit. So if if I if I have a jet that has a reliable 5% every time edge over the enemy, that's worth paying a lot of money for, right? Like I I I and and I think the the the loss in performance you would see through lack of specialization probably makes it nonviable. like to to to go to the to the extreme like uh you know I build robot submarines and those have a specialized form that needs to dive to 6,000 meter depth and and sit on the bottom of the ocean for months at a time and then I have other stuff that's on the surface and uh and you know they're robotic systems that you know roll up a hill and and they loiter and then I have other things that are you know aerial vehicles that are doing very specialized tasks and I just can't imagine a convergence that would make sense unless you're telling me that we're going to get something cool like like humanoids that have like you know onboard fusion reactors and they could dive to 6,000 ft depth. So Palmer, why why aren't you building those? I mean, if anybody you should [laughter] it's look, you could potentially build such a thing. But then very quickly you realize that specialization would allow you to build something even better. You say, okay, I've built something that can dive to the bottom of the ocean and fly to the moon. Man, it could get to the moon a lot faster if it didn't have to also dive to the bottom of the ocean. So I think I think defense is going to be this one where kind of like uh you know you you look at for example the difference between cars where everything has shared platforms within a manufacturer you know manufacturer and they also share a lot of the same standards uh and interfaces. Uh I think that you compare that with like uh motorsport where it's all completely different and it's continuously pushing forward. I I think the defense side is probably always going to be this this weird branch of exotic, highly specialized robotic systems. You know, Palmer, I expected if anybody was going to be building humanoid robots, it would be you. You said you said absolutely not. I' I've opted out because um I because I believe in them. If I didn't believe that humanoid robotics had such a powerful future, then I would probably build them. But I want Andreal to build things that wouldn't exist otherwise. That's what I generally want. You want to maximize your marginal impact, but they correct? All the other people are already doing a great job. Like I I want to use their robots and and and do things with them. Like I think humanoids are going to be an incredible general artificial intelligence interface between AI and remote systems and a lot of legacy platforms that were designed for a person, you know, pull the lever, push the button, read the screen. Like we're going to be able to take all those and automate them without replacing them entirely. So, you have a lot of things like radar systems that cost millions, tens of millions, even hundreds of millions of dollars. Uh, nobody wants to man them during a hot conflict because they're the first thing that's going to go. But if I can put humanoid robots in them, I've now been able to automate them without that. So, yeah, I'm not going to build humanoids. Uh, this is also why Andre is not building like small quadcopter attack drones. Too many other companies doing a great job. There's there's a lot of a lot of areas and and we're not going to do space launch like we do space products. We have a lot we operate a lot of our own satellites and a lot of our own sensors in space. Uh but I don't want to be a launch provider. That's for all the other billionaires to Yeah. Yeah. Let let them handle that. That's fantastic. Sm um you know when you're operating Andreal Industries, you're uh decentralizing defense, right? The Pentagon and Ministries of Defense globally have been the most centralized entity in the history of humanity. Uh you're sitting on the edge dealing with that. uh you must have a massive immune system problem where people inside the entity are going, "No, we've done that before. We can do it better. They either try and suck you in or they try and spit you out." How are you navigating that interface? Because you're doing it in a way that I've never seen anybody succeed do it. I think that this is a problem that's very very hard at the beginning. Oh, I said the wrong thing. [laughter] Wow. No idea. Well, until someone gets on the intercom and tells us to go a million dollar. Congratulations. Um, what were we talking? Seriously, I knew the intercom was going to come on. What were we talking about again? Centralization of Pentagon versus decentralized I'm going to keep talking to. Um, so we've gotten through this a bit. I think early on there was that concern that Anderl was not going to be able to get through that. Our our hardest problem raising money. Skippy, would you please shut this down? [laughter] I've been through enough of these to to know know how it's going to work. There we go. I imagine. Um, one of our early problems was that our investors said, Palmer, you potential investors. They said, "Look, we believe that you'll be able to build things that work. We believe you'll be able to build products that are great, but we don't believe the government is capable of actually purchasing them at scale." Because I mean you talk you talk about centralization you know about the issues for people who don't uh until just a few years ago you had about 80% of uh MDAPs major defense acquisition programs so basically anything that that matters uh 80% of MDAPs went to five companies and that's it and uh I mean you've seen incredible consolidation centralization and has been successful because we use we're less of a contractor and more of a product company. We use our own money to build products. Then we sell them. And we've gotten to the point now where people in government have done very very well betting on and then miraculously we finish on schedule. We finish on time and then the next program manager says, "I know how I can make my job easy. I just I just give the contract to Ander." Got it. So it's got to take guts to enter the defense industry, right? The most incestuous, you know, self-licking ice cream cone on the planet. Yeah. and and and what insanity, you know, gave you the balls to do that? The insanity was the reason that I got into it. Uh the first page of our pitch deck said Andro will save taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars a year by making tens of billions of dollars a year. The idea being we're not just making products that we're selling, but we are displacing the systems that cost needlessly 10 times what they should. And yeah, thank you. [applause] And so it does seem crazy, but you know, um I don't I I I can't put myself on the same pedestal as him, but one of my mentors and idols growing up and then also early in my career was John Carmarmac, the founder of Software. John is great. John is incredible. And for people who don't know, he's basically inventor of the modern modern 3D game engine firsterson shooters. Also started a rocket company that competed in He he was competing in the X-P prize and I I remember and he was one of the if not the only one to be doing reusable vertical. Exactly. He was doing vertical takeoff vertical. Nobody else was even trying to do and I remember I remember there's this this name on the side of his vehicles Nvidia. How do you pronounce that thing if I would only know? That's right. He was use and so yeah he was using uh he was using uh yeah he was building his own sensor fusion algorithms. He was processing them on modern or on a you know like commercial style graphics card hard hardware using his game programming experience. Anyway, the point is it was called Armadillo Armadillo Aerospace. That's right. And the thing and yeah, they were doing vertical takeoff and landing long before SpaceX was uh was was was I mean doing anything. Yeah. No, before it existed for sure. That's right. And uh so but anyway, the point is he he um I I he ended up becoming the CTO of Oculus VR. I managed to poach him away from ID, but after he left, he went to work on AI actually even before I did. Um and so he started he started his own company to work on uh on on AGI. And um and I said, "Why why are you why are you doing this?" you know that the odds of you succeeding and to be clear I still believe AI was going somewhere but he said I'm going to start a company that's just going all in on the end state like I'm not trying to incrementally get there it's just all in on AGI and the point that he made was Palmer even if I've got a 1% chance of succeeding which maybe is an overestimation but suppose I have a 1% chance of succeeding and suppose that I could pull it off uh the uh the risk adjusted uh outcome kind of demands that I do it. And that was how I felt about defense. If there was a 1% chance that I could help solve this problem, then it was one that would be massively impactful to work on versus, let's say, starting another gaming company, getting into space launch, uh, you know, building a car company, uh, that that which it it all of the billionaires, they end up doing the same thing. You don't have enough people getting into defense or or putting on a bat suit. It's just it's just cars and rockets and and they just go in circles like that for for for So, you know, when I interviewed you on the on the Moonshots podcast last time, you mentioned that you're part of a billionaires boys club chat group. Yeah. Yeah. [clears throat] Oh, yeah. Are they working on anything worthwhile at this point? I mean, I g I gave them for saying like, "God, you got all this capital. Solve the world's biggest problems." I think the B boys are doing a lot better now than we were a few years ago. Okay. Um they're they're stepping up. Yeah. And for people the thing we're talking about is I I was giving a lot of people a hard time especially some retired B boys and uh I was telling them what are you what are you doing you have cuz money is one of the resources they have but one of the resources people don't talk about especially for the retired B boys is that they have credibility which would allow them to gather people around them teams around them and capital like they could it's just sitting there unutilized if they're doing nothing. um they have the credibility in that people trust them as a leader to be able to lead an organization like that. They they could have the same ideas and the same words as somebody who's equally smart or smarter and uh they'll still do better for that. And so my point to them is you have a responsibility not only as someone who's who's got a lot of capital yourself, but who's got this underutilized resource of the ability to do more uh uh if you're not doing that then then are you really like what are you even doing? Anyone can sit on a boat. Few people can start another multi-billion dollar company that does something that matters. [applause] Yeah. And the good news is most of them I think uh I I I think a lot of people have uh have gotten the itch to to solve some of these problems that are out there. So we've got nihilism is is is on is on the down. The solution is we need more tea boys and fewer B boys. [laughter] Yeah, that's an interesting point. Although like I said, I think most of the tea boys I think they seem like they keep pretty busy. That's your point. I don't I don't even I don't have a problem with B boys who don't do enough. Like some people they mis mistake what I what I say like oh Palmer wants other billionaires to work on defense or energy or or biology and you like my point is not that people need to distract themselves by doing more things. A lot of people can only do one thing uh you know and that was what I did for a long time. Uh it's what I hate is the people who are not doing anything that's that that is that is like a repulsive to me. So maybe message to the audience, you get to join the B boys Slack group or whatever this is, Telegram if you're doing something new and differentiating. The group the group actually got shut down and uh we've been we've been talking about now we need to do a B boys 2.0. Um but I think I think people post maybe some B girls as well. I think people posted the wrong memes a few too many times. Boom. I I look there there was there was a time where there were no there were no be girls and then there was this Business Insider article uh whining about it and uh the reality is like it's just like me and some guys like you know it's not like there's this isn't like the Illuminati conference [laughter] you know it's like they're like oh there's a group and you know but no women have been invited it's not that no women have been invited it's just like me and some some of my boys but [laughter] um but actually there there was a there was there was a there was a girl at it by the So, uh, we need Yeah, we need to we need to restart that. We need to restart that group. So, you're in Facebook commercials now. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm so VR is out. Uh, how does it compare against your vision of what you wanted to achieve? Is it? Yeah. Look, it does a lot of the things that uh it's not exactly what I would make were I the guy who's waving the magic wand and and and you got lots of magic wands spinning the CAD. But uh um look, the new MetaVR glasses are a lot closer in a lot of ways. Uh so I've long been a believer that you need to decouple the compute and the battery from the head. You should it should not be that and and and I'm not even saying the head totally. It's more the front. So before Oculus Quest, so Oculus Quest was the last thing that I worked on before they fired me. And uh the prototypes at the time were a prototype series code named Santa Cruz. And uh we were actually showing that publicly before they fired me. And uh Santa Cruz had the battery and compute on the back of the head and then the light, you know, the part on the soft tissue on the front of your head was kept as light as possible. And then at some point after they got rid of me, they they jammed it all into one big giant lump in the front and they ruined the ergonomics. They forgot why you need a top strap. Uh but you know, it it bothers them, right? It bothers me most. Look, it bothers me mostly at this point because uh the Oculus Rift CV1, which was the first modern consumer VR headset. It got the ergonomics more or less perfect in 2016. And you know, we were showing it off in 2015 and literally nobody has done as good of as it and it's been over a decade. Every single person screws it up, even Apple. And I I just I don't I can't comprehend it. How how could it be that the ergonomic design led by a 19-year-old kid with no experience is better than anything that anyone has come up with since. Anyway, the new Metavir glasses are the closest thing and they're very lightweight. They've offboarded the compute. They've offboarded the batteries. They have really high quality pass through. Um they it has a feature that I invented for CV1 called transformo fabric which they do not call it. The basically using uh fabric a a soft flexible fab black black black lightabsorbing matte fabric to one minimize reflections but two uh basically seal the cavity between and around the lenses. That means that you can move them uh and the fabric just stretches to meet where the lenses are for different interpupilary distances rather than having like sliding mechanical interfaces and plastic. And they brought Transformer fabric back for the first time since my my era. So I'm I'm I'm a huge fan and uh you know it's a third of the price of Apple's product and uh somewhat higher higher pixel density. I I think that's pretty extraordinary. Oh and and and 1/8 the weight. Amazing. Amazing. Um, let's close on let's close on this. We've got, you know, 1500 entrepreneurs, moonshot visionaries, and tens of thousands watching on the live stream. Uh, what's your advice? What, you know, what did you learn in high school that made you succeed at the speed you did? We were talking about this on the plane. I mean, I I was really lucky to uh I guess maybe not lucky, I did it. Uh, but Well, you are you are lucky. That's right. I am [laughter] lucky. Similar name. I started an online community called Mod Retro when I was 14 or 15. Um, it was an internet forum for people who were modifying vintage game consoles and computers, building handheld units, improving the performance in a variety of ways. We had a few thousand active members and uh and a whole team of volunteer moderators and administrators with with me me at me at the top of it for some reason. And uh I learned a lot of valuable lessons about how you can build an organization, how you market an organization, how you get people to believe in what you're doing. I learned a lot about dealing with the types of problems you deal with when you're running a company, you know, with humans. Well, I mean, you you have two, it's a tale as old as time. You've got two people. They're both brilliant. They're both very good at what they do, and they hate each other, and they disagree over something. you need to somehow mediate the conflict or separate them in a way that allows you to get the value that that allows both of them to contribute value to the greater project uh but not have them hate you, not have them lose faith in the broader thing, but also you not not kill each other. Sometimes that means you need to reconcile things between the two. Sometimes it means that you need to put one guy over here and one guy over here and sometimes you need to make sure that they don't know that that's what you're doing as you do it. That's [laughter] just I'm not saying that's the key to running a successful business is the management of the two problem. But it's you and once you make it a threebody problem now [laughter] but uh but but it's it's that and a hundred things like it that I learned running Mod Retro that I was able to take into starting Oculus to carry forward into what I'm doing in my other companies. And uh that that's why I'm I'm a strong believer that that kids should should should get a job. And I I also had a job starting when I was 14. So I learned how the real world worked, too. But I I I'm a huge fan of people doing things at a scale that's larger than just themselves. In other words, don't just do a project. Do a project with someone else. Do a project with other people. Build in the open. Learn the the the the good parts of that, the bad parts of that. It it it's been extremely useful to me. And has building changed in the age of AI? What advice do you have? Again, you know, we've been saying on the pod for a while now, you know, forget about grad school. You know, even college is a is a maybe you didn't go to college. You know, in high schoolers should what? Find a a purpose they care about and use AI to go and code it. What's your your closing advice here on that? You know, one of the reasons I have not been as upset as some people about uh No, that's funny. There's something on the screen. It's telling us to not talk about something. [laughter] Just wanted to make sure you saw that. I I I did. We're not going to talk about my company. All right. Great. Great. Um [laughter] the uh there's there's a lot of people who who love their craft and they love what they do and uh and they are rightfully mourning uh the end of for example coding things by hand top to bottom, start to finish as anything but like a craft endeavor. Um, and and I and I understand that it's it's the same way that a lot of artists felt when the camera was invented. They they whined and complained about how it ruined art and it made it so that anybody could push a button and and you know, these things are always painful for the people who are masters of their craft. Um, I already got screwed in that way a long time ago. When you're a founder, you don't get to actually work in any of the tech anyway. All the other people get to have all the fun. And so, you know, I I like electrical engineering. I like optical engineering. I like mechanical engineering. I don't get to do any of it because the job of a founder is to uh hire people to to displace them and and and to do what they thought they could do or what they like they do like doing better. Uh the job I've said many times to people if you want to work on technology uh work for somebody else. If you want to work on non-stop start a company. And and and so and so what I would say to people is AI doesn't actually change the part of the job very much. you're still on the hook legally. You're still on the hook for all the interpersonal stuff. And you can you you can delegate some of it, but at the end of the day, it's your call. It's your decision. It's the same thing for fundraising. It's the same thing for general product architecture. And when people make the wrong decisions, it's your choice as to when you need to overrule them, override them, replace them. I don't see AI replacing that part of it anytime soon. Not because it couldn't, but because the gains everywhere else are so much larger that I think we've got a good 10 years of speed running all of the other parts of the business before they before they cover that. So, look, AI changes a lot. But I I'm telling you, there's a lot of people you are in for a rude awakening. If you are like a hobbyist coder or a hobbyist engineer and you think you're going to start a company and you think you're going to be doing all that stuff, no, you're going to learn a hard lesson. B being a founder was was always like AI took your job. It's just that other people took it. Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, give it up for Lucky. [music]